apps/docs/docs/shaders/images.md, before:

---
id: images
title: Image Shaders
sidebar_label: Images
slug: /shaders/images
---

## Image

Returns an image as a shader with the specified tiling.
It will use cubic sampling.

| Name       | Type           |  Description                       |
|:-----------|:---------------|:-----------------------------------|
| image      | `SkImage`      | Image instance. |
| tx?        | `TileMode`     | Can be `clamp`, `repeat`, `mirror`, or `decal`. |
| ty?        | `TileMode`     | Can be `clamp`, `repeat`, `mirror`, or `decal`. |
| fm?        | `FilterMode`   | Can be `linear` or `nearest`. |
| mm?        | `MipmapMode`   | Can be `none`, `linear` or `nearest`. |
| fit?       | `Fit`          | Calculate the transformation matrix to fit the rectangle defined by `fitRect`. See [images](/docs/images). |
| rect?      | `SkRect`       | The destination rectangle to calculate the transformation matrix via the `fit` property. |
| transform? | `Transforms2d` | see [transformations](/docs/group#transformations). |

### Example
```tsx twoslash
import {
  Canvas,
  Circle,
  ImageShader,
  Skia,
  Shader,
  useImage
} from "@shopify/react-native-skia";

const ImageShaderDemo = () => {
  const image = useImage(require("../../assets/oslo.jpg"));
  if (image === null) {
    return null;
  }
  return (
    <Canvas style={{ flex: 1 }}>
      <Circle cx={128} cy={128} r={128}>
        <ImageShader
          image={image}
          fit="cover"
          rect={{ x: 0, y: 0, width: 256, height: 256 }}
        />
      </Circle>
    </Canvas>
  );
};
```
### Result
![Image Shader](assets/image.png)

Commit message:

feat(🏞️): fix default image sampling and add full control of sampling options (#2880)
fixes #2507

This adds full control to the sampling options to the user but it also fix the default sampling options as well as making it consistent on all APIs (image, atlas, shader in declarative/imperative).

apps/docs/docs/shaders/images.md, after:

---
id: images
title: Image Shaders
sidebar_label: Images
slug: /shaders/images
---

## Image

Returns an image as a shader with the specified tiling.
It will use cubic sampling.

| Name       | Type           |  Description                       |
|:-----------|:---------------|:-----------------------------------|
| image      | `SkImage`      | Image instance. |
| tx?        | `TileMode`     | Can be `clamp`, `repeat`, `mirror`, or `decal`. |
| ty?        | `TileMode`     | Can be `clamp`, `repeat`, `mirror`, or `decal`. |
| fit?       | `Fit`          | Calculate the transformation matrix to fit the rectangle defined by `fitRect`. See [images](/docs/images). |
| rect?      | `SkRect`       | The destination rectangle to calculate the transformation matrix via the `fit` property. |
| transform? | `Transforms2d` | see [transformations](/docs/group#transformations). |
| sampling? | `Sampling` | The method used to sample the image. see ([sampling options](/docs/images#sampling-options)). |

### Example
```tsx twoslash
import {
  Canvas,
  Circle,
  ImageShader,
  Skia,
  Shader,
  useImage
} from "@shopify/react-native-skia";

const ImageShaderDemo = () => {
  const image = useImage(require("../../assets/oslo.jpg"));
  if (image === null) {
    return null;
  }
  return (
    <Canvas style={{ flex: 1 }}>
      <Circle cx={128} cy={128} r={128}>
        <ImageShader
          image={image}
          fit="cover"
          rect={{ x: 0, y: 0, width: 256, height: 256 }}
        />
      </Circle>
    </Canvas>
  );
};
```
### Result
![Image Shader](assets/image.png)
