docs/docs/animations/values.md, before:

---
id: values
title: Values
sidebar_label: Values
slug: /animations/values
---

:::info

Currently, built-in Skia animations are dependant on the JS thread.
For UI-thread animations with Reanimated 3, see [Reanimated support](/docs/animations/reanimated).

:::

React Native Skia supports Animations through the concept of Skia Values. A value can be seen as the state in the library where a change in will trigger a repaint request on the `Canvas` component where it is used.

A simple example below shows how a value is used as a property for the x position of the `Rect` element.

```tsx twoslash
import { Canvas, Rect, useValue } from "@shopify/react-native-skia";
import { useCallback } from "react";
import { Button } from "react-native";

const MyComponent = () => {
  const position = useValue(0);
  const updateValue = useCallback(
    () => (position.current = position.current + 10),
    [position]
  );

  return (
    <>
      <Canvas style={{ flex: 1 }}>
        <Rect x={position} y={100} width={10} height={10} color={"red"} />
      </Canvas>
      <Button title="Move it" onPress={updateValue} />
    </>
  );
};
```

## Skia Values

The basic `SkiaValue` is a value that stores some kind of Javascript value. It can be used to store numbers, strings, booleans, objects and even arrays:

```tsx twoslash
import { useValue } from "@shopify/react-native-skia";
const progress = useValue({ x: 100, y: 100 });
const actualValue = progress.current; // actualValue is now {x: 100, y: 100}
```

There are a few more value types in the library that will be described below.

## Computed value

This value is a Skia Value that is computed from other Skia Values.
It takes one or more existing values and a function that will calculate the new value based on the input. The function will be evaluated every time the input value changes.

```tsx twoslash
import { useValue, useComputedValue } from "@shopify/react-native-skia";

const radius = useValue(100);
const theta = useValue(Math.PI);
const length = useComputedValue(
  () => radius.current * theta.current,
  [radius, theta]
);
console.log(length.current); // 314.1592653589793
```

## Clock Value

This value is a value that updates on every display frame on the device.
The value will be updated with the number of milliseconds elapsed since it was started.

```tsx twoslash
import {
  useClockValue,
  Canvas,
  Circle,
  useComputedValue,
} from "@shopify/react-native-skia";

const interval = 3000;

const Demo = () => {
  const clock = useClockValue();
  const opacity = useComputedValue(() => {
    return (clock.current % interval) / interval;
  }, [clock]);
  return (
    <Canvas style={{ flex: 1 }}>
      <Circle r={100} cx={100} cy={100} color="black" opacity={opacity} />
    </Canvas>
  );
};
```

## Canvas Size

The `onSize` property will update the provided Skia Value with the current canvas size when the Canvas is resized.

```tsx twoslash
import React from "react";
import {
  Canvas,
  Fill,
  Group,
  Rect,
  rect,
  useValue,
  useComputedValue,
} from "@shopify/react-native-skia";
const Example = () => {
  const size = useValue({ width: 0, height: 0 });
  const rct = useComputedValue(() => {
    return rect(0, 0, size.current.width, size.current.height / 2);
  }, [size]);
  return (
    <Canvas style={{ flex: 1 }} onSize={size}>
    <Group>
      <Fill color="magenta" />
      <Rect color="cyan" rect={rct} />
      <Rect
        x={0}
        y={0}
        width={size.current.width}
        height={size.current.height / 2}
        color="red"
      />
    </Group>
    </Canvas>
  );
};
```

## Selectors

When dealing with complex Skia values, the `Selector` function allows you to map that value to a form that can be understood by a Skia component. This is particularly useful when dealing with complex Skia values like arrays or objects.

In the example below, we access elements in the array corresponding to the index of the component using `Selector`.

```tsx twoslash
import React from "react";
import {
  Canvas,
  Rect,
  useComputedValue,
  useLoop,
  Selector,
} from "@shopify/react-native-skia";

const Heights = new Array(10).fill(0).map((_, i) => i * 0.1);

export const Demo = () => {
  const loop = useLoop();
  const heights = useComputedValue(
    () => Heights.map((_, i) => loop.current * i * 10),
    [loop]
  );

  return (
    <Canvas style={{ flex: 1, marginTop: 50 }}>
      {Heights.map((_, i) => (
        <Rect
          key={i}
          x={i * 20}
          y={0}
          width={16}
          height={Selector(heights, (v) => v[i])}
          color="red"
        />
      ))}
    </Canvas>
  );
};
```

The same approach can be used for accessing properties of objects.

```tsx twoslash
import React from "react";
import {
  Canvas,
  Path,
  Skia,
  Selector,
  useValue,
} from "@shopify/react-native-skia";

const previous = Skia.Path.Make();
const current = Skia.Path.Make();

export const Demo = () => {
  const state = useValue({ previous, current });
  return (
    <Canvas style={{ flex: 1 }}>
      <Path path={Selector(state, (state) => state.previous)} />
      <Path path={Selector(state, (state) => state.current)} />
    </Canvas>
  );
};
```

## Value Effect

The `useValueEffect` hook allows you to execute change on value change.
In the example below we execute a callback on every frame (every time the clock value changes).

```tsx twoslash
import React, { useEffect } from "react";
import { Animated } from "react-native";
import {
  Canvas,
  Rect,
  mix,
  useClockValue,
  useValueEffect,
  useValue,
  interpolate,
} from "@shopify/react-native-skia";

export const Demo = () => {
  const clock = useClockValue();
  const x = useValue(0);

  useValueEffect(clock, () => {
    x.current = interpolate(clock.current, [0, 4000], [0, 200]);
  });
  return (
    <Canvas style={{ flex: 1 }}>
      <Rect x={x} y={100} width={10} height={10} color="red" />
    </Canvas>
  );
};
```

Commit message:

Add support for shared values in onSize

docs/docs/animations/values.md, after:

---
id: values
title: Values
sidebar_label: Values
slug: /animations/values
---

:::info

Currently, built-in Skia animations are dependant on the JS thread.
For UI-thread animations with Reanimated 3, see [Reanimated support](/docs/animations/reanimated).

:::

React Native Skia supports Animations through the concept of Skia Values. A value can be seen as the state in the library where a change in will trigger a repaint request on the `Canvas` component where it is used.

A simple example below shows how a value is used as a property for the x position of the `Rect` element.

```tsx twoslash
import { Canvas, Rect, useValue } from "@shopify/react-native-skia";
import { useCallback } from "react";
import { Button } from "react-native";

const MyComponent = () => {
  const position = useValue(0);
  const updateValue = useCallback(
    () => (position.current = position.current + 10),
    [position]
  );

  return (
    <>
      <Canvas style={{ flex: 1 }}>
        <Rect x={position} y={100} width={10} height={10} color={"red"} />
      </Canvas>
      <Button title="Move it" onPress={updateValue} />
    </>
  );
};
```

## Skia Values

The basic `SkiaValue` is a value that stores some kind of Javascript value. It can be used to store numbers, strings, booleans, objects and even arrays:

```tsx twoslash
import { useValue } from "@shopify/react-native-skia";
const progress = useValue({ x: 100, y: 100 });
const actualValue = progress.current; // actualValue is now {x: 100, y: 100}
```

There are a few more value types in the library that will be described below.

## Computed value

This value is a Skia Value that is computed from other Skia Values.
It takes one or more existing values and a function that will calculate the new value based on the input. The function will be evaluated every time the input value changes.

```tsx twoslash
import { useValue, useComputedValue } from "@shopify/react-native-skia";

const radius = useValue(100);
const theta = useValue(Math.PI);
const length = useComputedValue(
  () => radius.current * theta.current,
  [radius, theta]
);
console.log(length.current); // 314.1592653589793
```

## Clock Value

This value is a value that updates on every display frame on the device.
The value will be updated with the number of milliseconds elapsed since it was started.

```tsx twoslash
import {
  useClockValue,
  Canvas,
  Circle,
  useComputedValue,
} from "@shopify/react-native-skia";

const interval = 3000;

const Demo = () => {
  const clock = useClockValue();
  const opacity = useComputedValue(() => {
    return (clock.current % interval) / interval;
  }, [clock]);
  return (
    <Canvas style={{ flex: 1 }}>
      <Circle r={100} cx={100} cy={100} color="black" opacity={opacity} />
    </Canvas>
  );
};
```

## Canvas Size

The `onSize` property will update the provided Skia Value with the current canvas size when the Canvas is resized. This property can also be a Reanimated shared value (see [reanimated integration](/docs/animations/reanimated)).

```tsx twoslash
import React from "react";
import {
  Canvas,
  Fill,
  Group,
  Rect,
  rect,
  useValue,
  useComputedValue,
} from "@shopify/react-native-skia";
const Example = () => {
  const size = useValue({ width: 0, height: 0 });
  const rct = useComputedValue(() => {
    return rect(0, 0, size.current.width, size.current.height / 2);
  }, [size]);
  return (
    <Canvas style={{ flex: 1 }} onSize={size}>
    <Group>
      <Fill color="magenta" />
      <Rect color="cyan" rect={rct} />
      <Rect
        x={0}
        y={0}
        width={size.current.width}
        height={size.current.height / 2}
        color="red"
      />
    </Group>
    </Canvas>
  );
};
```

## Selectors

When dealing with complex Skia values, the `Selector` function allows you to map that value to a form that can be understood by a Skia component. This is particularly useful when dealing with complex Skia values like arrays or objects.

In the example below, we access elements in the array corresponding to the index of the component using `Selector`.

```tsx twoslash
import React from "react";
import {
  Canvas,
  Rect,
  useComputedValue,
  useLoop,
  Selector,
} from "@shopify/react-native-skia";

const Heights = new Array(10).fill(0).map((_, i) => i * 0.1);

export const Demo = () => {
  const loop = useLoop();
  const heights = useComputedValue(
    () => Heights.map((_, i) => loop.current * i * 10),
    [loop]
  );

  return (
    <Canvas style={{ flex: 1, marginTop: 50 }}>
      {Heights.map((_, i) => (
        <Rect
          key={i}
          x={i * 20}
          y={0}
          width={16}
          height={Selector(heights, (v) => v[i])}
          color="red"
        />
      ))}
    </Canvas>
  );
};
```

The same approach can be used for accessing properties of objects.

```tsx twoslash
import React from "react";
import {
  Canvas,
  Path,
  Skia,
  Selector,
  useValue,
} from "@shopify/react-native-skia";

const previous = Skia.Path.Make();
const current = Skia.Path.Make();

export const Demo = () => {
  const state = useValue({ previous, current });
  return (
    <Canvas style={{ flex: 1 }}>
      <Path path={Selector(state, (state) => state.previous)} />
      <Path path={Selector(state, (state) => state.current)} />
    </Canvas>
  );
};
```

## Value Effect

The `useValueEffect` hook allows you to execute change on value change.
In the example below we execute a callback on every frame (every time the clock value changes).

```tsx twoslash
import React, { useEffect } from "react";
import { Animated } from "react-native";
import {
  Canvas,
  Rect,
  mix,
  useClockValue,
  useValueEffect,
  useValue,
  interpolate,
} from "@shopify/react-native-skia";

export const Demo = () => {
  const clock = useClockValue();
  const x = useValue(0);

  useValueEffect(clock, () => {
    x.current = interpolate(clock.current, [0, 4000], [0, 200]);
  });
  return (
    <Canvas style={{ flex: 1 }}>
      <Rect x={x} y={100} width={10} height={10} color="red" />
    </Canvas>
  );
};
```
