docs/docs/animated-images.md, before:

---
id: animated-images
title: Animated Images
sidebar_label: Animated Images
slug: /animated-images
---

React Native Skia supports animated images. Supported formats are GIF and animated WebP.

## Using Reanimated

If you use Reanimated, we offer a `useAnimatedImageValue` hook that does everything automatically. `useAnimatedImageValue` returns a shared value that automatically updates on every frame.

In the example below, we display and animate a GIF using Reanimated. The shared value is first null, and once the image is loaded, it will update with an `SkImage` object on every frame.

```tsx twoslash
import React from "react";
import {
  Canvas,
  Image,
  useAnimatedImageValue,
} from "@shopify/react-native-skia";

export const AnimatedImages = () => {
  // This can be an animated GIF or WebP file
  const bird = useAnimatedImageValue(
    require("../../assets/birdFlying.gif")
  );
  return (
      <Canvas
        style={{
          width: 320,
          height: 180,
        }}
      >
        <Image
          image={bird}
          x={0}
          y={0}
          width={320}
          height={180}
          fit="contain"
        />
      </Canvas>
  );
};

```

![bird](assets/bird.gif)

## Manual API

To load an image as a `SkAnimatedImage` object, we offer a `useAnimatedImage` hook:

```tsx twoslash
import {useAnimatedImage} from "@shopify/react-native-skia";

// bird is an SkAnimatedImage
const bird = useAnimatedImage(
  require("../../assets/birdFlying.gif")
)!;
// SkAnimatedImage offers 3 methods: decodeNextFrame(), getCurrentFrame(), and currentFrameDuration()
// getCurrentFrame() returns a regular SkImage
const image = bird.getCurrentFrame();
// decode the next frame
bird.decodeNextFrame();
// fetch the current frame number
const currentFrame = bird.currentFrameDuration();
```

Commit message:

Instructions on how to load assets on the Web with Metro

docs/docs/animated-images.md, after:

---
id: animated-images
title: Animated Images
sidebar_label: Animated Images
slug: /animated-images
---

React Native Skia supports animated images. Supported formats are GIF and animated WebP.

## Using Reanimated

If you use Reanimated, we offer a `useAnimatedImageValue` hook that does everything automatically. `useAnimatedImageValue` returns a shared value that automatically updates on every frame.

In the example below, we display and animate a GIF using Reanimated. The shared value is first null, and once the image is loaded, it will update with an `SkImage` object on every frame.

```tsx twoslash
import React from "react";
import {
  Canvas,
  Image,
  useAnimatedImageValue,
} from "@shopify/react-native-skia";

export const AnimatedImages = () => {
  // This can be an animated GIF or WebP file
  const bird = useAnimatedImageValue(
    require("../../assets/birdFlying.gif")
  );
  return (
      <Canvas
        style={{
          width: 320,
          height: 180,
        }}
      >
        <Image
          image={bird}
          x={0}
          y={0}
          width={320}
          height={180}
          fit="contain"
        />
      </Canvas>
  );
};

```

![bird](assets/bird.gif)

:::info

If you're loading Images on the Web with the Metro bundler (Expo, etc.), make sure you're [properly loading your assets](https://shopify.github.io/react-native-skia/docs/getting-started/web#loading-assets-on-the-web)

:::

## Manual API

To load an image as a `SkAnimatedImage` object, we offer a `useAnimatedImage` hook:

```tsx twoslash
import {useAnimatedImage} from "@shopify/react-native-skia";

// bird is an SkAnimatedImage
const bird = useAnimatedImage(
  require("../../assets/birdFlying.gif")
)!;
// SkAnimatedImage offers 3 methods: decodeNextFrame(), getCurrentFrame(), and currentFrameDuration()
// getCurrentFrame() returns a regular SkImage
const image = bird.getCurrentFrame();
// decode the next frame
bird.decodeNextFrame();
// fetch the current frame number
const currentFrame = bird.currentFrameDuration();
```
