docs/docs/image.md, before:

---
id: image
title: Images
sidebar_label: Image
slug: /images
---

## Loading Images

### useImage

Images are loaded using the `useImage` hook. This hook returns an `SkImage` instance, which can be passed to the `Image` component.

Images can be loaded using require statements or by passing a network URL directly. It is also possible to load images from the app bundle using named images.

```tsx twoslash
import { useImage } from "@shopify/react-native-skia";
// Loads an image from the JavaScript bundle
const image1 = useImage(require("./assets/oslo"));
// Loads an image from the network
const image2 = useImage("https://picsum.photos/200/300");
// Loads an image that was added to the Android/iOS bundle
const image3 = useImage("Logo");
```

Loading an image is an asynchronous operation, so the `useImage` hook will return null until the image is fully loaded. You can use this behavior to conditionally render the `Image` component, as shown in the [example below](#example). The hook also provides an optional error handler as a second parameter.

### MakeImageFromEncoded

You can also create image instances manually using `MakeImageFromEncoded`.

```tsx twoslash
import { Skia } from "@shopify/react-native-skia";

// A sample base64-encoded pixel
const data = Skia.Data.fromBase64("iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAYAAAAfFcSJAAAADUlEQVR42mP8/5+hHgAHggJ/PchI7wAAAABJRU5ErkJggg==");
const image = Skia.Image.MakeImageFromEncoded(data);
```

### MakeImage

`MakeImage` allows you to create an image by providing pixel data and specifying the format.

```tsx twoslash
import { Skia, AlphaType, ColorType } from "@shopify/react-native-skia";

const pixels = new Uint8Array(256 * 256 * 4);
pixels.fill(255);
let i = 0;
for (let x = 0; x < 256; x++) {
  for (let y = 0; y < 256; y++) {
    pixels[i++] = (x * y) % 255;
  }
}
const data = Skia.Data.fromBytes(pixels);
const img = Skia.Image.MakeImage(
  {
    width: 256,
    height: 256,
    alphaType: AlphaType.Opaque,
    colorType: ColorType.RGBA_8888,
  },
  data,
  256 * 4
);
```

**Note**: The nested for-loops in the code sample above seem to have a mistake in the loop conditions. They should loop up to `256`, not `256 * 4`, as the pixel data array has been initialized with `256 * 256 * 4` elements representing a 256 by 256 image where each pixel is represented by 4 bytes (RGBA).

### useImage

`useImage` is simply a helper function to load image data. 

## Image Component

Images can be drawn by specifying the output rectangle and how the image should fit into that rectangle.

| Name   | Type      | Description                                                                                                                                                   |
| :----- | :-------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| image  | `SkImage` | An instance of the image.                                                                                                                                               |
| x      | `number`  | The left position of the destination image.                                                                                                                       |
| y      | `number`  | The top position of the destination image.                                                                                                                      |
| width  | `number`  | The width of the destination image.                                                                                                                               |
| height | `number`  | The height of the destination image.                                                                                                                              |
| fit?   | `Fit`     | The method used to fit the image into the rectangle. Values can be `contain`, `fill`, `cover`, `fitHeight`, `fitWidth`, `scaleDown`, or `none` (the default is `contain`). |

### Example

```tsx twoslash
import { Canvas, Image, useImage } from "@shopify/react-native-skia";

const ImageDemo = () => {
  const image = useImage(require("./assets/oslo.jpg"));
  return (
    <Canvas style={{ flex: 1 }}>
      <Image image={image} fit="contain" x={0} y={0} width={256} height={256} />
    </Canvas>
  );
};
```

### fit="contain"

![fit="contain"](assets/images/contain.png)

### fit="cover"

![fit="cover"](assets/images/cover.png)

### fit="fill"

![fit="fill"](assets/images/fill.png)

### fit="fitHeight"

![fit="fitHeight"](assets/images/fitHeight.png)

### fit="fitWidth"

![fit="fitWidth"](assets/images/fitWidth.png)

### fit="scaleDown"

![fit="scaleDown"](assets/images/scaleDown.png)

### fit="none"

![fit="none"](assets/images/none.png)

## Instance Methods

| Name            | Description                                                           |
| :-------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `height`        | Returns the possibly scaled height of the image.                      |
| `width`         | Returns the possibly scaled width of the image.                       |
| `getImageInfo`  | Returns the image info for the image.                                 |
| `encodeToBytes` | Encodes the image pixels, returning the result as a `UInt8Array`.     |
| `encodeToBase64`| Encodes the image pixels, returning the result as a base64-encoded string. |
| `readPixels`    | Reads the image pixels, returning result as UInt8Array or Float32Array |

Commit message:

Instructions on how to load assets on the Web with Metro

docs/docs/image.md, after:

---
id: image
title: Images
sidebar_label: Image
slug: /images
---

## Loading Images

### useImage

Images are loaded using the `useImage` hook. This hook returns an `SkImage` instance, which can be passed to the `Image` component.

Images can be loaded using require statements or by passing a network URL directly. It is also possible to load images from the app bundle using named images.

```tsx twoslash
import { useImage } from "@shopify/react-native-skia";
// Loads an image from the JavaScript bundle
const image1 = useImage(require("./assets/oslo"));
// Loads an image from the network
const image2 = useImage("https://picsum.photos/200/300");
// Loads an image that was added to the Android/iOS bundle
const image3 = useImage("Logo");
```

Loading an image is an asynchronous operation, so the `useImage` hook will return null until the image is fully loaded. You can use this behavior to conditionally render the `Image` component, as shown in the [example below](#example).

:::info

If you're loading an Image on the Web with the Metro bundler (Expo, etc.), make sure you're [properly loading your assets](https://shopify.github.io/react-native-skia/docs/getting-started/web#loading-assets-on-the-web)

:::

The hook also provides an optional error handler as a second parameter.

### MakeImageFromEncoded

You can also create image instances manually using `MakeImageFromEncoded`.

```tsx twoslash
import { Skia } from "@shopify/react-native-skia";

// A sample base64-encoded pixel
const data = Skia.Data.fromBase64("iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAAABCAYAAAAfFcSJAAAADUlEQVR42mP8/5+hHgAHggJ/PchI7wAAAABJRU5ErkJggg==");
const image = Skia.Image.MakeImageFromEncoded(data);
```

### MakeImage

`MakeImage` allows you to create an image by providing pixel data and specifying the format.

```tsx twoslash
import { Skia, AlphaType, ColorType } from "@shopify/react-native-skia";

const pixels = new Uint8Array(256 * 256 * 4);
pixels.fill(255);
let i = 0;
for (let x = 0; x < 256; x++) {
  for (let y = 0; y < 256; y++) {
    pixels[i++] = (x * y) % 255;
  }
}
const data = Skia.Data.fromBytes(pixels);
const img = Skia.Image.MakeImage(
  {
    width: 256,
    height: 256,
    alphaType: AlphaType.Opaque,
    colorType: ColorType.RGBA_8888,
  },
  data,
  256 * 4
);
```

**Note**: The nested for-loops in the code sample above seem to have a mistake in the loop conditions. They should loop up to `256`, not `256 * 4`, as the pixel data array has been initialized with `256 * 256 * 4` elements representing a 256 by 256 image where each pixel is represented by 4 bytes (RGBA).

### useImage

`useImage` is simply a helper function to load image data. 

## Image Component

Images can be drawn by specifying the output rectangle and how the image should fit into that rectangle.

| Name   | Type      | Description                                                                                                                                                   |
| :----- | :-------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| image  | `SkImage` | An instance of the image.                                                                                                                                               |
| x      | `number`  | The left position of the destination image.                                                                                                                       |
| y      | `number`  | The top position of the destination image.                                                                                                                      |
| width  | `number`  | The width of the destination image.                                                                                                                               |
| height | `number`  | The height of the destination image.                                                                                                                              |
| fit?   | `Fit`     | The method used to fit the image into the rectangle. Values can be `contain`, `fill`, `cover`, `fitHeight`, `fitWidth`, `scaleDown`, or `none` (the default is `contain`). |

### Example

```tsx twoslash
import { Canvas, Image, useImage } from "@shopify/react-native-skia";

const ImageDemo = () => {
  const image = useImage(require("./assets/oslo.jpg"));
  return (
    <Canvas style={{ flex: 1 }}>
      <Image image={image} fit="contain" x={0} y={0} width={256} height={256} />
    </Canvas>
  );
};
```

### fit="contain"

![fit="contain"](assets/images/contain.png)

### fit="cover"

![fit="cover"](assets/images/cover.png)

### fit="fill"

![fit="fill"](assets/images/fill.png)

### fit="fitHeight"

![fit="fitHeight"](assets/images/fitHeight.png)

### fit="fitWidth"

![fit="fitWidth"](assets/images/fitWidth.png)

### fit="scaleDown"

![fit="scaleDown"](assets/images/scaleDown.png)

### fit="none"

![fit="none"](assets/images/none.png)

## Instance Methods

| Name            | Description                                                           |
| :-------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `height`        | Returns the possibly scaled height of the image.                      |
| `width`         | Returns the possibly scaled width of the image.                       |
| `getImageInfo`  | Returns the image info for the image.                                 |
| `encodeToBytes` | Encodes the image pixels, returning the result as a `UInt8Array`.     |
| `encodeToBase64`| Encodes the image pixels, returning the result as a base64-encoded string. |
| `readPixels`    | Reads the image pixels, returning result as UInt8Array or Float32Array |
