docs/docs/shapes/custom-drawing.md, before:

---
id: custom-drawing
title: Custom Drawing
sidebar_label: Custom Drawing
slug: /shapes/custom-drawing
---

The `Drawing` component that allows you to use the imperative API within the declarative API.
Please note that because this component relies on the JavaScript thread, this component is expected to be slower than its declarative counterpart.

### Example

```tsx twoslash
import {Canvas, Group, Drawing, Skia} from "@shopify/react-native-skia";

export const HelloWorld = () => {
  const size = 256;
  const r = size * 0.33;
  return (
    <Canvas style={{ flex: 1 }}>
      <Group blendMode="multiply">
        <Drawing
          drawing={({ canvas, paint }) => {
            paint.setColor(Skia.Color("cyan"));
            canvas.drawCircle(r, r, r, paint);
            paint.setColor(Skia.Color("magenta"));
            canvas.drawCircle(size - r, r, r, paint);
            paint.setColor(Skia.Color("yellow"));
            canvas.drawCircle(size / 2, size - r, r, paint);
          }}
        />
      </Group>
    </Canvas>
  );
};
```

### Result

<img src={require("/static/img/getting-started/hello-world/blend-modes.png").default} width="256" height="256" alt="Hello World" />

Commit message:

Update warning on custom-drawing.md (#1783)

docs/docs/shapes/custom-drawing.md, after:

---
id: custom-drawing
title: Custom Drawing
sidebar_label: Custom Drawing
slug: /shapes/custom-drawing
---

The `Drawing` component that allows you to use the imperative API within the declarative API.

:::info

Please note that because this component relies on the JavaScript thread to be available, this component is expected to be slower than its declarative counterpart. Use with caution. If you are looking to animate on the number of drawing commands, we recommend using Reanimated 3 with the [Picture](/docs/shapes/pictures/) component.

:::

### Example

```tsx twoslash
import {Canvas, Group, Drawing, Skia} from "@shopify/react-native-skia";

export const HelloWorld = () => {
  const size = 256;
  const r = size * 0.33;
  return (
    <Canvas style={{ flex: 1 }}>
      <Group blendMode="multiply">
        <Drawing
          drawing={({ canvas, paint }) => {
            paint.setColor(Skia.Color("cyan"));
            canvas.drawCircle(r, r, r, paint);
            paint.setColor(Skia.Color("magenta"));
            canvas.drawCircle(size - r, r, r, paint);
            paint.setColor(Skia.Color("yellow"));
            canvas.drawCircle(size / 2, size - r, r, paint);
          }}
        />
      </Group>
    </Canvas>
  );
};
```

### Result

<img src={require("/static/img/getting-started/hello-world/blend-modes.png").default} width="256" height="256" alt="Hello World" />
